Good morning, everybody.
My name is Scott Barbber.
I'm the Integration Services Manager for
Apple Professional Services and
Education,
and I'm here to present to you Deploying
Portable and Network Home Directories.
So we're going to review
a number of different home
directory deployment models,
ranging from the simplest of
home directory models that is a
strictly local home directory all
the way up through mobile accounts
and portable home directories,
and finally finishing off with
the concept of hosting network
and portable home directories.
And we'll be reviewing a number
of features that were added in
Leopard and talk a little bit about
the impact of those new features
to your respective environments.
So starting with the sort of simplest
paradigm of home directory deployment,
the local home directory,
and this is essentially where you've
got your home stored on your computer.
This is dictated by a specific attribute
on the user record known as the
NFS home directory attributes and that
attribute just refers to a local path.
In this case, /user/admin, for example.
And this can be used
with any account type.
So it's a common misnomer that in
order to have a local home directory,
you must have a local account.
In reality,
you can configure any type of account,
a local account, a guest account,
or a network type account to have
a locally defined home directory.
And we've added in past releases
of Mac OS X the FileVault feature,
whereby your home lives locally on your
Mac but lives in an encrypted disk image.
This requires your administrative
users to enable this feature,
and then you can set a
master password so that,
for example,
if a user forgets his or her password,
you still have a means
to recover that data.
Now, new in Leopard,
we've added a feature
called the Guest Account.
And the idea behind the Guest
Account is to give you sort of
a kiosk-style login whereby you
have a local account named Guest,
and at logout time,
the contents of the home
directory for that user are
actually completely deleted.
So there's just essentially no footprint
for that user's previous login.
This is enabled in the
Account System Preference pane.
So there's a checkbox for allowing
Guest to log into the computer.
There's also been a new feature
added to allow this to be managed.
So if you're in an environment where
you're managing policies for your
Mac clients via Open Directory or
via another directory system,
you can actually enable guest
access in bulk at the computer
or computer group level.
And if you'd like to find out more about
managing Macs using Managed Client,
I would encourage you to
check out Session 517,
which is Managing Clients and Preferences
with Mac OS X and Leopard Server.
So in terms of how the
local home gets created,
if you have a local user and you go
to the account system preference pane,
that local home directory is created
immediately upon you provisioning the
account in the accounts pref pane.
Now for all other methods that
you might use to create a local
account or to create an account,
that causes the home directory to be
created at the user's first login.
So again, for the guest user,
for example,
the home is created at login time,
deleted at logout time.
And then for your network users, again,
that local home directory would
be created at their first login.
So the only time when you don't create
the local home directory at first login
is when you provision an account via
the account system preference pane.
At the command line,
there's actually a tool that's built
into every shipping Mac OS X system
called Create Home Dir.
And this can be used to
create home directories,
and you can create them
either for local users,
network users, really any type of user.
You can call this command,
and what it does is checks the
NFS home directory attribute,
looks at that path, and then creates the
home directory for you,
depending on where that home is located.
The creation of the home
directory is based on something
known as the user template.
And you can customize the user
template to change the user experience.
This is located in
/system/library/usertemplates.
Notably,
because it's in the system folder,
just be aware that this is
something that can be modified
or changed by a software update.
So the contents of this have
to be owned by the root user,
have to have the wheel group.
Now, new in Leopard,
for those of you who've had some
experience editing this in the past,
we've made some changes to
the defaults of the template.
One big change is that there's now
what's known as an everyone-denied-delete
access control entry on the major
subfolders inside of your home directory.
So for example, movies, music, pictures,
et cetera, those things now all have
an everyone-denied-delete.
This is more or less intended to
prevent a local user from accidentally
deleting one of those folders.
However,
your power users may express some
frustration around the notion
of not being able to easily
delete one of those folders.
So just something to be aware of.
In addition,
the local user gets a Dropbox by
default as part of the user template.
And one thing that's been added in
Leopard is an access control entry that
causes anything dropped into there to
get an inherited access control entry
for the owner of the home directory.
This corrects some longstanding
issues around move operations and
drag and drops into Dropboxes,
resulting in the file still being owned
by the person that dropped it instead
of being accessible by the receiver,
so to speak.
So just some general guidelines
for editing the user template.
First of all,
edit this at your own peril,
in the sense that it's
located in the system folder,
and it could be overwritten by a software
update or some other system change.
Check for hard-coded paths in the things
that you put into the user template.
So example, if you want to copy a
preference file into there,
be aware that that preference
file may contain a hard-coded
path to the home directory of the
user that created the pref file,
and you may not want to propagate
that out to every single user
that's accessing your system.
In addition,
make sure you clean up after yourself.
So if you're going to do a bulk copy
of items into the user template,
be really careful that you don't leave
things like passwords or pref files
that contain sensitive user data,
because that will get duplicated
for every user of that system.
Now for Active Directory environments,
local homes get special-cased
ever so slightly.
So there's a checkbox inside of
the Active Directory plug-in known
as the fourth local home option.
And what this does is it
programmatically causes the
AD plug-in to return a local home
directory for all users of the system
via the NFS home directory attribute.
And then it programmatically
generates a second attribute.
It's known as original home directory.
And original home directory
is just an encoded URL back
to your network home location.
And so at the command line,
you can actually configure this
as well using the config AD
And it's important to note that this
actually generates a little bit of a
small snippet of managed client policy
on the fly that does two things for you.
First of all,
it mounts the SharePoint where your
network home directory lives at login
time using your name and password.
And then it also puts a link to
your network home on the dock
directly so that you can go
into the dock and gain immediate
accessibility to your network home.
The note is this cannot be combined
with portable home directories.
So if you want to use portable
home directories in an
Active Directory environment,
make sure that you don't check
the force local home box.
Make sure that you either use
the option to create a mobile
account or set the mobility policy
upstream in your management.
All right.
It's also important to note that this
requires that in Active Directory users
and computers that you've populated
a home directory location,
specifically that you've given
a UNC path that refers to a
specific network location.
And that's populated on the Profiles
tab in AD Users and Computers.
So now moving away from local
home directories and onto
network home directories.
A true network home directory is
a network account combined with
a network-based home directory.
So there's no local
user footprint at all.
And this retains sort of the Unix tilde
concept in the sense that if I type
in the command line tilde username,
that that is a substitution for the
actual path to my home directory.
However,
a true full-blown network home directory
is exceedingly bandwidth intensive.
The general requirement for
these are switched 100 megabit
connections to the client and a
recommendation of having a gigabit
speed connection up to your server.
This is not something that, for example,
can be trivially deployed
in a wireless environment,
as there doesn't exist sufficient
bandwidth to support all the
small file and large file
traffic associated with this.
Also be aware that you're
essentially tying your entire
user experience to the network.
And so as goes the network connection,
so goes the user experience.
This can also mean that bad
application behavior can cause
some significant end-user pain.
For example,
an application that might pull.
A given folder over and over
again looking for changes to
maybe update a script menu item
or something along those lines.
So why would you do network
homes in the first place then,
given some of those caveats?
Well, it does give you an opportunity
to centralize your data.
So it becomes machine independent.
Repurposing a lab, for example,
becomes really trivial if there's
no user data stored locally that
I have to worry about retaining.
This also can make it a little easier for
you to deal with backup because the data
exists independent of the workstations.
It means that you don't have
to worry about backing up
content off the workstations.
You simply back the server up
and your data has been preserved.
In terms of how the
network home gets defined,
we talked earlier about a local
home being defined strictly with
the NFS home directory attribute.
So in a network home
directory environment,
you have the NFS home directory
attribute that refers to a network path.
Specifically,
it starts with /network/servers,
and then you have a host name and
then some additional path item.
In addition,
you have an additional attribute
called the network path.
This is a shared relative
URL that's encoded and stored
in the home directory attribute.
And I've included an example here.
To go along with the user record,
you also have to have a mount record.
And this mount record is
accessible on the search path,
and it can either be manually created
in your local directory or it can be
created using Server Admin and populated
into a network-based directory system.
Once again,
with Active Directory environments,
this is a special case just a little bit.
Mount records actually aren't required in
an Active Directory environment because
the AD plugin generates Mount records
on the fly anytime it sees a user home
directory populated on a user record.
So again, the key is that you have to
make sure that you've populated
the Active Directory Users and
Computers Profiles tab with
a network home location.
In terms of accessing the network home,
we do have support for three different
protocols for accessing user home
directories over the network.
Starting with AFP3,
this gives you full HFS+ feature support.
It supports Kerberos authentication.
We've had auto-reconnect
support for quite a while.
There are implementations
available for Mac servers,
for Windows servers,
for network servers as well.
There's also an open
store stack out there,
the NetATOX stack, which is available for
other platforms as well.
Historically,
scalability with AFP has been a
challenge with network home directories,
although this has much
improved in Leopard Server.
And there's no fast user switching
support when you're using AFP as
your network home directory protocol.
That's because at any given time,
only one user can be
connected to that share.
So when you flip over to
another user with a network home
directory in that same share,
there's no way to drop the
connection and re-establish it
as your newly connected user.
So be aware that fast user
switching and AFP network
homes don't really go together.
Scott Barbber Now with NFS,
in Leopard Server,
we added Kerberized NFS support.
Implementations are available
on all major platforms with NFS,
and you get full tilde username support,
meaning that any user can
arbitrarily get to another user's
home directory fairly trivially,
for example,
if there's public content that
that user's hosting there.
This also allows for fast user switching,
as you don't need to do any kind of an
authentication switch on the connection.
Bear in mind, however,
if you use ACLs in your environment,
that NFS limits you currently
to being really connected to
your network home directory.
So if you've deployed ACLs,
having NFS connections to your home
directories will limit you in that sense.
Finally,
we do have support for SMB homes as well.
In Leopard, client-side support was
added for auto-reconnect for
SMB in Kerberos environments.
There's also better NTFS stream
support so that if you shouldn't
be going forward creating those
.underbar files that so many of you
have expressed are challenging for you.
There's also Kerberos
support for the SMB client,
and this generally is the most
friendly to existing Windows IT shops.
However,
Tiger and earlier OSs have somewhat
limited support in this area,
and this is only fully
supported with the AD plug-in.
So you'll notice that if
you go into Server Admin,
for example,
that you don't see the option to
create an automount record for
anything other than AFP and NFS.
That's because support for SMB home
directories right now is exclusively
limited to the AD plug-in.
New in Leopard is a feature called,
that we call folder redirection.
This is a client-side feature,
and it's designed to really enable
administrators to reduce small
file traffic back to the server.
So certain folders, for example,
like the movies folder or the
caches folder inside of the home
directory can be redirected to a
local location on the workstation.
This is activated by the
managed client policies,
and there's actually a specific key
called the com.apple.mcx-redirector
key that you would use.
This, for example,
then allows you to redirect
the library caches folder
down to a temporary location.
And at this time,
I would actually like to demonstrate
folder redirection for you.
Okay,
so I've opened up Workgroup Manager here,
and I've got a user already defined
in the system called Redirection.
And what I'm going to do is go ahead
and set up a Manage Client Policy for
this user that will cause his home
directory to be partially redirected.
So I'm going to go into
Preferences in Workgroup Manager,
and I'm going to go to Details.
There's not a specific icon that
we use for this particular item.
And I'm going to click this plus button,
and I'm going to...
Go into the System folder,
into the Library folder,
and then to Core Services.
And I'm going to pick out an
application called manageclient.app.
Once I choose "Add," you'll
see that this added a number of
different preference IDs and names,
and the one that we're particularly
interested in is the one marked
here as "Folder Redirection."
So I'm going to double-click that item,
and I'm going to click the
disclosure triangle here next to
"Always" and choose "New Key."
I'll choose Login Redirections.
Once again,
click the disclosure triangle.
Choose New Key again, and we see Redirect
Action Info is populated.
And I'm going to go ahead and just
use the defaults for this demo because
it makes life a little easier for us.
We'll see that there's an action,
which is the Delete and
Create Sim Link action.
There's a destination folder path.
And it's a little tough to see,
but there's a %@ sign.
And that %@ sign substitutes
in the currently logging in
user's name into the path.
And then finally, the actual folder path
that is to be redirected.
So this action will redirect the
contents of the Library Caches folder
in the user home directory into
the temp folder on the local hard
drive of the system where I log in.
So I'll click Apply now.
And then it's time to actually put
this into action and make it work.
So I'm going to switch my system here.
Okay, so now at my login screen,
and I'm going to go ahead and
log in with my Redirection user.
Oops.
Pardon me.
There we go.
So you can see here that Redirection
has a home directory that's
located on xserve.pretendcode.com,
which is my server,
and it's located in the
home directory share.
I'm going to specifically look inside
of the library folder for this user,
and we'll see that caches
has been replaced with what
appears to be an alias.
If I double-click this,
I see that this has now been
redirected into the temp folder,
into a subfolder with my current
user's name called Redirection,
and library caches.
And that is folder Redirection.
Moving on from network--full-blown
network home directories--
onto mobile accounts.
So with mobile accounts,
you have a cached network account
combined with a local home directory.
So user attributes are copied and then
stored locally in the local directory
system with a local home directory.
In addition, your password hash is
also stored locally.
However, your network server is
preferred if it's reachable.
So this allows for offline
access to the account if you
are to roam off of your network.
New in Leopard is an additional
feature that's sort of an
extension of the mobile accounts
paradigm called external accounts.
And an external account is nothing
more than a locally-cast account
where the user's folder is also
stored on an external drive.
This is going to be a
USB or a FireWire drive.
Key important piece to this is that
the volume must be HFS+ formatted.
So most of the time,
your pen drives and whatnot come FAT32
or FAT16 formatted out of the box.
Important to note that if you want to
use those drives with this feature,
they need to be HFS+ formatted.
So when you attach the drive,
this actually makes any user who's
had the account cached onto that
drive available to authenticate.
So the user actually
shows up in the user list,
and if the computer's not in
the same directory domain,
it will actually prompt for
admin authorization to gain
access to the local system.
And rather than explaining this,
the best way for me to show this
off is to actually demo it for you.
So switching back once
again to my system here,
I've got redirection.
I've got a new account
here called external,
so I'm gonna go ahead and use that
one for this part of the demo.
So, selecting the external account,
I'm going to go to Preferences,
and I'm going to go to
the Overview section.
So, there's a full UI for
this particular feature.
If we go to Mobility,
I'm going to go ahead and turn on
the mobility option to create a
mobile account when the user logs in.
And just for the sake of the demo,
I'll turn off the requiring confirmation.
And we'll also turn syncing off for
the purposes of this demo as well.
We're going to go to Options here,
and we'll manage this Always.
And we'll notice that we have
Home Folder Location listed,
and it says On Startup Volume or At Path.
I'm going to actually
select the User Chooses,
and I'm going to say
User Chooses Any External Volume.
And then click Apply Now.
So what this will do for me is that
when the user external logs in,
they'll be prompted to select a volume,
and then I can actually have my
mobile account provisioned not
only in the local directory system,
but also in that external volume.
So what I did was I brought
with me a pen drive,
and I'm gonna go ahead and connect
that to my other demo system here.
So I'm now prompted--create
a mobile account.
I get an explanation, and it says,
"Select the home folder's
volume." So in this case,
I'm going to choose my disk,
which is my external volume,
and click "Create Now."
And after a few moments,
what's happening behind the scenes
right now is that my account is being
cached and my home directory is being
provisioned on the external drive.
So once I complete login,
we should see that this user's
home directory is actually located
on the MyDisk external drive.
And at this point, if I log out,
I now have the ability to take this
drive and use it somewhere else.
So I can move from system to system
to system and immediately gain
access back to my full account.
And more importantly,
I retain my full user experience.
So I retain the characteristics
of my login session.
I retain all of the private
system settings that I've
historically been using.
It all follows the user all
on this small external device.
[Transcript missing]
this takes us to portable
home directories,
just sort of the next logical step
in the home directory evolution.
With portable home directories,
it's a synchronization environment.
Your home directory on your computer is
synchronized with your home directory
that's stored on a server somewhere.
It's important to note
that this is not backup.
If you remove something from the server,
at next synchronization,
it disappears from the client as well,
and vice versa if you
remove it from the client,
at next synchronization,
it's removed from the server as well.
So you don't want to run into the
unfortunate scenario where a user thinks,
"Oh, I can throw away all these things
locally "because they're already on
the server because I just synced,"
except that if the following sync,
all those items would disappear.
So the way a portable home directory
works is that at first interactive login,
you create a mobile account.
You copy the home using
certain synchronization rules.
The local template's
actually not used by default.
So we talked earlier about
local home directories using the
local home directory template.
This is actually not used by default.
Login and logout items are synced.
So we'll talk a little bit about the
notion of login and logout item rules.
By default,
the login and logout sync items
are the library folder inside
the user's home directory.
Essentially,
all of the items that you need to get
in place and fully set up before the
user's interactive session can begin.
Then there are what are
known as background items.
Those are things that would
sync on an ongoing basis in the
background as opposed to syncing
at login and syncing at logout.
Those items, however,
are all synced at the first login.
So if I'm syncing, let's say,
library at login and then movies
and music in the background,
all three of those folders will sync
at the first login for a given user.
Note that login and logout
sync is a blocking sync.
That is, the user can't get to the finder
until all of the synchronized
items are done syncing.
Background sync is a blocking
sync only on the first login.
That is, the first login time,
those things are synced.
At all subsequent logins,
they are synced according to a
defined interval by management policy.
That is, that either you say,
"I'm only going to sync this
manually," or "I'll sync it at
a certain interval." Let's say 5
minutes or 20 minutes or an hour.
So just some general guidelines
for synchronization rules.
First of all,
set up your rules by folder.
For example, synchronize the Tilda
document in desktop,
but maybe don't synchronize movies,
music and pictures.
However, be really careful about
excluding by file extensions.
There is the capability to filter
what you're syncing by file extension.
However, we found that this can have some
unintended consequences for end users.
For example,
if you have a keynote presentation with
a bunch of embedded QuickTime movies,
those QuickTime movies are stored
in the keynote presentation
as discrete .mov files.
And if you restrict syncing of .movs,
you may have a user that
create a PowerPoint--or sorry,
that create a keynote presentation,
and then that is synced
upstream sans movies.
So then the next time they
go to a new workstation,
they sync all their stuff,
they go to launch their presentation,
and all the movies are missing.
Why?
Because they were contained
in the presentation.
Scott Barbber So if you
have a keynote presentation,
you may have a user that created
a PowerPoint presentation,
and all the movies are missing.
Why?
Because they were contained
within that keynote bundle file,
and your sync rule excluded
them from being synced.
So just a heads up on that one,
something to be aware
of in your environments.
A shorter background synchronization time
can actually lessen your server load.
So in periodic lab classroom
type deployments where you have
a lot of students coming in,
accessing the systems,
and then all logging
out at the same time,
if you sync all of those things,
either at a very long interval
or all at login and logout,
you're going to have users waiting
around for sync to complete.
And as we're all aware of,
that's not going to happen.
And as we're all aware
with our end users,
a lot of times,
especially if they're using portables,
that lid will get closed before that
last synchronization ever happens.
So having the background sync
fire off pretty regularly allows
data to be kind of trickled back
up to the server pretty evenly.
And it means that at logout time,
you won't be waiting around for
a lot of things to synchronize
all the way at the end.
Also, train your users to understand the
concept of backing up their data still.
I know this sort of seems intuitive.
But again, a substitute for backup.
So just make sure that your users
are educated into understanding
that this does not provide a
complete safety net and that
backing up data is still important.
Finally, look for things that
you don't want to sync.
For example,
there's really no need to sync log files,
cache files.
There's a lot of data that you
can pretty easily selectively
exclude from your sync lists.
These are all things that
the less items you sync,
of course, the faster logins are,
the better they use.
So if you're using a lot of data,
you're going to want to make sure
that you're not using a lot of data.
The faster logins are,
the better the user experience.
So just be really careful about how
you're building your sync rule lists.
Now,
new in Leopard is a feature that folks
have asked us for in lab settings.
It's expiring mobile accounts.
And previous to Leopard,
whenever you provisioned
a mobile account,
that mobile account existed on
that workstation ad infinitum until
somebody came and manually removed it.
There was no way to automatically
make these things go away.
So every user who logs in,
they would get a home directory
and a locally cached account.
But you can now set an
expiration date on these things.
And what this allows you to
do is to actually kind of turn
off the mobile account locally.
It actually just completely
removes all of the user's footprint
after a certain amount of time.
So, for example, I might say,
you know what?
Go ahead and keep around this
mobile account with a portable
home directory for five days
after the user's last login.
So that if they log in again,
they don't have to go through
the complete re-syncing.
They can only sync changed items.
But if they haven't logged
in for five consecutive days,
I'm going to assume that I don't
want to retain that user's data
on this workstation anymore.
And I can go ahead and just
remove that account at the
next successful user login.
The best way to show this off
once again is to demo this.
So, expiring mobile accounts.
So I've defined yet another account
here called "Expiring." So I'll go
into my Preferences folder here,
Preferences area, and I'm going to go to
Mobility once again,
and we're going to go
to Account Creation,
once again creating our mobile account.
We'll say with default sync settings.
And we're going to go
to our account expiry,
and we're going to say always.
And check the delete
mobile accounts option.
Now,
we see that this is defined in weeks,
days, and hours in the GUI.
For demo purposes,
an hour really wouldn't work for us.
So what we're going to
choose is zero hours.
And what zero hours will do is simply,
at a successful logout,
immediately delete the account.
So I will log in.
I will work with a portable
home directory that has
synchronization enabled.
And at logout time,
my mobile account and my PhD will be
deleted off the local workstation,
thus leaving no footprint of
my having logged in there.
This can be very useful, again,
for kiosk and lab type settings.
So let's change this to zero.
You'll notice that there's a
checkbox here for "Delete only after
successful sync." So it is possible,
for example, that you may end up in an
environment where you don't
want the local account deleted,
even if the user hasn't
logged in for 10 days,
unless the system knows that one final
last successful sync has been completed.
We'll go ahead and leave that checked.
So I'm going to switch over
to my demo system here.
And we'll log in as our expiring user.
[Transcript missing]
My stuff.
And I'm going to go ahead and
synchronize my home directory.
[Transcript missing]
Mainly to show you that if
I look in my users folder here,
you'll see that there is no remnant
of that previous user account.
So the account has been expired,
the local home directory
has been deleted,
and then if I were to log
in with that account again,
it would be recreated for me and the
contents would be resynchronized.
And that's external--aspiring
mobile accounts.
Finally, for hosting network and
portable home directories,
in terms of scaling for home directories,
our general guideline is that
your maximum number of concurrent
connections for what we call
a mounted home directory,
that is a user passively accessing their
home directory via connect to server,
can go anywhere from
500 plus connections.
It's really, at that point,
it has as much to do with your network
and your use profile by your users.
But at very minimum,
you should be able to handle 500
in that kind of an environment.
Now, once you get to portable
home directories,
there's a fair amount of file
system enumeration that has to
happen during the sync process.
So at that point,
you're looking in the 300 range
for concurrent connections for
portable home directory syncing.
So if I'm looking at a deployment
of about 3,000 MacBook Pros,
and I'm gonna have all of them
using portable home directories,
I might be looking at, well,
what kind of concurrency do I have,
and at any given moment,
how many will be syncing?
And I don't wanna have,
if I said that maybe 600 of them would
be in active use at any given moment,
I would need at least two XSERVs
to handle the load associated
with those clients managing
their portable home directories.
Finally,
with full network home directories,
where the entire home directory
is stored server side,
the general sweet spot for this is
about 150 before you start to see
some breakdowns in performance.
Again, intensive,
intensive small file traffic,
a lot of file system enumeration,
especially at login and logout time.
So keep in mind that network
home directories are by far
the most intensive server side,
load generating environment
that you can have.
So in terms of how to
improve concurrency,
for true network home directories,
leverage redirection.
Get a lot of those things like
Safari cache files out of the
network home and get them into
a local scratch space where
they don't need to be preserved.
This decreases the enumeration,
decreases the small file traffic.
Monitor your application
behavior as well.
Make sure that you don't have apps that
are doing really colossally silly things,
like polling the contents
of the home directory.
For portable home directories,
reduce the items that you're syncing and
also leverage a new feature in Leopard
called server side tracking for PHD sync.
This is actually a separate daemon
process that runs out of band
from the file services connection.
It uses the FS events notification
system to track changes to
your network home directory.
This reduces the enumeration load
on the server because instead of
the client having to comb the entire
network home and look for what changed,
instead, the server actually provides the
client with a list of anything
that has changed server-side,
during that client's login session,
and then the client can change
those items without having to poll
or to do a full run through all
the contents of the network home.
Keep in mind that this
is not XAN compatible,
so if you're using PHDs and
you're hosting them on XAN,
bear in mind that you cannot use the
server-side file tracking feature.
Finally, XAN and home directories.
So just be aware that XAN does
allow multiple servers
to share one file system,
but beware of portable home directories.
PHDs on XAN do carry a really
significant enumeration load,
especially because you don't have that
server-side file tracking support.
And ultimately, your metadata controllers
become your bottleneck here.
Also, just bear in mind that if
you're gonna store homes on XAN,
that this does not provide
redundancy in your storage.
You still need to have a backup plan for
home directories that are stored on XAN.
Finally,
some tips and tricks for hosting homes
in an Active Directory environment.
We talked earlier about the
concept of defining that UNC name.
And this generates two
attributes in the AD plugin,
the NFS Home Directory and
the Home Directory attributes.
Now this is--the NFS Home Directory path
is always a POSIX path and
it always starts at root.
So on a server,
it's /network/server/xserve.protenco.com,
for example.
So when you define a home
directory in Windows,
there's only one attribute.
There's not two like we have in Mac OS X.
So you just have this native
attribute called home directory,
and it's a UNC path.
No concept of the volume where the
home directory share is located.
So the AD plugin has
to make an assumption.
It has to assume that that share
is on the root of the boot volume.
So the AD plugin actually does a
little bit of magic for us here.
It -- what it does is it looks at
the Active Directory home directory,
breaks in into parts,
and then generates the two
Mac attributes that we need.
It generates the home directory attribute
and the NFS home directory attribute.
However, it has to make an assumption.
The assumption that it has to
make is that the home share is
on the root of the boot drive.
Now, we know that in most
of your environments,
you're not hosting your home directories
on the boot drive of your servers.
You're hosting them on some sort of
external volume or secondary volume.
So the simple way to work around this
is you create a symbolic link from
root to the actual share where your
home directories are being hosted.
What this does is it allows that
path to be resolved appropriately.
And what that means is that when
you're hosting home directories for
Active Directory users on an XServe,
home directory auto creation works.
You do not have to manually
provision the home for each user.
The home will be provisioned
on the fly when the user
first logs in via AFP or SMB.
So at this point,
I would like to bring up Greg Nagel,
who's the Senior Systems Engineer for
Walt Disney Animation Studios,
to talk about a real-world implementation
of Network Home Directories.
Greg.
So, I'm Greg Nagel,
Senior Systems Engineer for
Walt Disney Animation Studios.
We're located in Burbank, California.
We've got about 900
artists and technicians,
and we support a wide range of platforms.
On the desktop, we have Linux, Mac OS,
Windows.
In the server room, we even have Solaris.
There's probably a handful
of Irix boxes around still.
Isn't that a fantastic photo?
Smog can look so beautiful
when lit correctly.
So we have an existing infrastructure.
Our directory services are hosted
on Red Hat Directory Server.
We have kick-ass NetApp appliances
serving up our home directories.
Very high availability,
very high bandwidth.
They work really well.
And so our goals were to reuse
that existing infrastructure.
We didn't want to have to have a
separate infrastructure for our Macs and
a different one for our Linux boxes and
a different one for our Windows boxes.
We wanted them all to use the same thing.
We wanted to separate our
user data from the machine.
And we wanted to enable fast
machine upgrades and swaps.
We have an annoying
tendency to buy the latest,
greatest hardware for the most
demanding artists and then take
their hardware and move it down to
less demanding artists and then take
administrative people and then take
their hardware and move it down to me.
So we're moving machines around a lot,
and it takes a lot of time.
It's a heck of a lot easier if
you don't have to worry too much
about the user data on the machine.
If that's somewhere else,
then you can just swap out the machine.
And also, many of our artists use both
Linux and Macs to do their job.
They might do some animation in Maya,
but do some sort of
painting in Photoshop.
And so they need to be able to
share data back and forth between
the two platforms very easily.
So our first task in getting
this all to work was to enable
network accounts on OS X.
And we were able to do that
using the LDAP v3 plugin.
And since we're using the standard
RFC2-2307 UNIX mapping schema in LDAP,
that's built in to the LDAP plugin.
It's one of the pop-up menus.
You can just choose that and you can get
your users and groups right out of LDAP.
And if you're lucky in your organization,
you may not have to do
anything more than that.
So what that allowed us then to do is
the user could then log in using their
existing UNIX short name and password.
Next thing we had to do, though,
was get Network Home Directories
and NFS shares working.
Now, prior to Leopard,
this was harder than it needed to be.
Apple had a proprietary automounter
that didn't work really like any
other UNIX automounter out there.
And so we weren't able to
use our existing automount
maps that we had in LDAP.
We had to write scripts that
took us a long time to write.
We took those in and rewrote them
out in a different format that
the Mac OS X automounter liked.
The Mac OS X automounter
mounted them in a strange place.
And it didn't really work
very well with laptops.
If the laptop went off the network,
back on the network,
we had to do a lot of scripting
to handle those situations.
Leopard now includes AutoFS,
and that's based on OpenSolaris'
implementation of AutoFS.
There's also AutoFS usually
on most flavors of Linux.
So if you are using an automounter
on any other Unix-like platform,
it's probably AutoFS.
Apples can get the automount maps from
the directory services or local files,
and with luck and a little work,
it can use the exact same automount maps
as other Unixes in your organization.
And here's the big thing for laptops,
is that it handles
network transitions well,
because it's tied in
to directory services.
If you boot up a laptop off the network
but then plug it into your network,
directory services sees that transition,
queries LDAP for the automount maps,
and brings the automounts up.
So, with AutoFS,
you can now configure LDAP to talk
to AutoFS simply by pointing it to
the right stuff in your LDAP tree.
There are some notes that you
might want to be aware of.
Out of the box, Apple wants to use what's
called the AutoMount Map Schema.
There are some older schemas.
One that's in common use is
called the NIS Map Schema.
So be aware of that.
If you've got the NISMAP schema in LDAP,
you may have to do some remapping
or talk your LDAP admins into
migrating to the newer schema.
The map key in LDAP is asterisk.
Now, that's always been traditionally
the wildcard key is asterisk,
but for some reason,
older versions of Linux decided to use
the slash as the wildcard key in LDAP.
Well,
the OS X Automata doesn't like that.
And the auto_mastermaps,
the format's different.
They differ somewhat.
Just be aware that AutoFS 4 and
earlier on Linux use a different format
map than what everybody else uses.
So if you've got AutoFS 4 machines,
you may have to have a separate
auto_mastermap for your OS X machines.
So, we're now approaching
network home nirvana.
We have network accounts.
We've got automated NFS home
directories and shares.
And now our users can log in to any
machine with the same credentials
and get the exact same working
environment and access the same data,
no matter what machine they're on,
no matter what platform they're on.
But Nirvana's not what
it's all cracked up to be.
There are some challenges.
Since there's an existing home directory,
we had configuration problems.
The default preference is you
can't use the user template,
and so the default preferences
aren't preset for people.
So, we have to enforce quotas.
We--that NetApp gear--very,
very high performance, very,
very high reliability, very,
very expensive.
So, we can't give everybody as much space
on the NetApp as we could locally,
so we have to enforce quotas.
Caches.
Local caching directs a lot
of files to the network.
There are some apps that don't
perform that well on networks.
And increasingly, mobile users.
So for default configuration,
since it's a network home directory,
it doesn't use the system
library user template.
Plus, that home directory pre-exists.
It may have been used by a
Linux user for other things,
so we can't just blindly
blow the directory away and
copy a bunch of files there.
So we have to have a way to set
up sane defaults for the user the
first time they log into OS X.
And our solution was to
write a custom app called the
Disney Animation Setup Assistant.
And I'd like to give a short demo.
Or maybe not.
Let's skip the demo.
Trust me, it's fantastic.
If you're actually
interested in seeing it,
it's not important, Scott.
If you're interested in seeing it,
there is a lab later this afternoon
on network home directories
and portable home directories.
I'd be happy to show it
to anybody at the lab.
So moving on.
Quotas were a challenge for us.
The finder doesn't support or
doesn't recognize NFS quotas.
So users would fill
up their network home.
They really wouldn't know
what they were doing.
And suddenly,
their apps would start crashing.
The dock would reset to defaults.
They'd call,
and they didn't know what was going on.
So we needed to give them a way to know
when they were approaching their quota.
Once again,
we wrote a custom app that just kind
of sits down in the bottom corner
of their screen and gives them how
full their network home is and warns
them as it gets fuller and fuller
and fuller and then gives them what
they should do as it gets full,
which is usually to call
somebody else to help them.
Adam Gerson has written an
application that you can all download
if you want to check one out.
You also have the capability now,
perhaps, of writing your own,
because at least in our environment,
the quota command actually
returns something usable with
our NFS home directories.
It didn't before.
I don't know if that's an improvement
in Leopard or maybe it's a side
effect of the AutoFS transition,
but you can actually get
decent information now.
The caches,
which is where you've got cache files
being stored out in the network.
My recommendation now is
to use MCX Redirector,
as Scott showed earlier,
and just remove those
caches to a local path.
And finally--actually, I said finally,
but it's not finally--next,
poorly performing apps.
There's a lot of apps out there--less
and less each day--but there's a
lot of apps out there that really
assume that the home is local,
that the disk is right there,
it's not over the network,
and they're really optimized for that.
And they don't really perform well when
the home is out on the network and more
limited bandwidth than you get from disk.
There's an application,
Digidesigns Digidelivery.
It won't even launch if the home
is not on the local machine.
I don't know how it would
behave with an external account
or on an external volume,
but I do know that if
it's out on network,
it absolutely won't even launch.
There are other apps that move
a lot of data-- Photoshop,
Final Cut, iMovie.
They're working with very large files,
and obviously it takes more time
to move large files over a network
than it does to the local disk,
and so they don't perform as well either.
There's certainly a lot more.
So what can you do?
You want the benefits of the
home directories and--or you
want the benefits of network home
directories and network accounts,
but you want to give your
users a good user experience.
So what you want to do is try
portable home directories.
You don't have to do these on laptops.
You can do these on desktops as well.
And what it'll do is move the
data local to the machine,
and so those apps that want
local data are going to get it.
The final challenge with
Network Home Directories
was mobile users.
Four or five years ago when
we first started implementing
Network Accounts and Home Directories,
we only had a very
small number of laptops.
So we treated them as kind of one-offs.
We just created local accounts
on their machine and told people,
hey, good luck with that,
make sure you back stuff up,
and you know.
And their passwords wouldn't be
the same as their network password,
and they would get really confused.
And it was kind of a pain to manage.
And then when Apple made
the Intel transition,
suddenly laptop use started
to really accelerate.
And this is, I think,
because the performance of the laptops
was on par with the desktop machines.
They were really no longer second-class
citizen in terms of performance.
Pricing is really good on laptops these
days compared to desktop machines.
And wireless has exploded,
so you have a lot of benefit from
working with a laptop because
you can walk around the building,
you can go to a conference room
and bring your laptop with you.
And so people want the laptops.
In fact, we're only buying laptops and
high-end Mac Pro machines.
We don't buy anything in between.
We don't buy any other
desktops other than Mac Pros.
So local accounts are a pain to manage,
local data is a pain to manage,
so we moved to mobile accounts
with portable home directories.
This is how it works at Disney Animation.
The mobile accounts are managed via MCX,
Workgroup Manager.
I'm sure you've seen it before.
They're prompted to create the
mobile account on their first login.
Admins can manually
create mobile accounts,
for example,
for desktop users that might have
applications that perform poorly.
The laptop users,
their home directories are
protected by FileVault,
and that's enforced via MCX.
They don't have any
choice over the matter.
It just automatically is
created when they first log in.
And so they get that new laptop,
they log in with their
network credentials,
they're asked for the mobile account,
they say yes,
FileVault Home Directory is created,
copy of the network,
home is copied locally,
and now the user has their
data on their new machine.
Almost no touching by a technician.
In theory,
you could hand them the machine
and run as fast as you could
to the other side of the room.
So, Apple, especially in Leopard,
has made some really great
default settings for home syncing,
but there are some additional
changes you might want to consider,
certainly ones that we did.
And our goals here were to not store
unnecessary data on the server.
We wanted to minimize the
login and logout sync time,
because the user just has to sit
there and wait while that's happening.
And we want to minimize the sync
conflict dialogs that come up,
because users don't know
how to respond to them.
You know, say,
"Do you want to keep this file or
this file?" And sometimes they say,
"Keep both." And when it's thousands
of files and they've clicked "Keep
both" and now they've blown out
their network home directory because
they've just doubled it in size,
it gets really ugly.
So, one strategy that we went to
was to exclude the big folders.
We, by default,
do not synchronize movies,
music and pictures.
Our thinking there is music folder,
it's probably their iTunes music library.
We don't want to back that up.
We don't want to be responsible for that.
That's their data.
Movies, probably iMovie, iDVD stuff.
Again,
not stuff that we're using in production.
Pictures, probably mostly iPhoto stuff.
Stuff that we're not using in production.
It's personal data.
But user education is critical here.
You want to make sure they know that
that stuff is not being synchronized
to the network so they don't
have a false sense of security.
And so if that data is important to them,
they can back it up elsewhere.
Or if they're storing company data there,
maybe they can decide to
store it somewhere else.
A couple others.
I think you should exclude
the Downloads folder.
I mean, they've downloaded it
once from the Internet.
They can download it again.
There's some other ones:
the Entourage Temp folder.
Any time you get an
iTunes software update,
it puts the entire software
image in your home folder.
You don't need to synchronize that.
Flash, the Downloads folder in Mail,
and yet more.
This list up here comes from looking
at--you'll see the file there.
It's the standard exclusions plist.
It's used by Time Machine when
it decides what to back up.
This is stuff that Time Machine says,
"I don't need to back this up,
so why should we synchronize
it either?" So we're not gonna.
And this time I'm going to say finally,
and I really do mean it.
Finally,
let's talk a little bit about forensics.
So, if you want to know a little
bit more about what's going
on when there's a homesink,
or maybe the homesink isn't
doing what you expect,
and you want to be able to
investigate or troubleshoot,
here's where you want to look.
There are log files in the
user's local home--library logs,
file sync agent, file sync agent,
verbose.
The sync state databases--this
is what keeps track of what
has synchronized in the past,
so they know what things have
been synchronized and what things
haven't been synchronized yet.
There are two places those are
kept--one in the local home with the
tilde and one out on the network home.
If you delete both of those databases,
the next time there's a synchronization,
it'll act like it's brand new.
It resets it right to the virgin state.
And the synchronization rules.
There are local rules that are
kept in the user's home folder in
librarypreferences.com.apple/homesync.pl
ist.
And then, assuming that you are managing
additional rules via MCX,
an easy way to check to see what's
actually being delivered to that
machine or what that machine is paying
attention to is use System Profiler,
either via the GUI or
via the command line.
It now can show you the
Manage Client settings,
so you can see that, oh,
what's being applied to this machine
is what I think is supposed to
be being applied to this machine.